[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: I'm going to implement
a width function that gives us
the width of an element.
Given what you know,
what the DOM gives you,
>> Justin Meyer: How could I
implement this width function?
So I'll go back a slide.
So I need this dimension here
of the available content area.
I want that to give me that back.
How can I implement it?
>> Chris: Client width minus padding.
>> Justin Meyer: Minus padding,
exactly right.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to make it, so
I'll read the content width value.
And I'm subtract out the left padding and
the right padding, giving me
the actual width of the content area.
And I'm going to use my
CSS as method to do it.
So let me kill that.
>> Justin Meyer: So
I'm going to read my elements client
width by doing this(0).clientWidth.
>> Justin Meyer: And then I want the left
padding and the right padding, so
I'm gonna go leftPadding =.
How can I read the leftPadding?
>> Justin Meyer: Anybody,
how could I read the leftPadding?
It's a CSS value.
>> Chris: [INAUDIBLE] the computed.
>> Justin Meyer: But I use my CSS value
>> Chris: You're right.
>> Justin Meyer: Yes, so I use my CSS
method to read the padding-left and
I'll also read the rightPadding.
>> Justin Meyer: And
then what do I need to do?
>> Justin Meyer: By the way,
what's your name?
>> Chris: Chris.
>> Justin Meyer: Someone other than Chris
[LAUGH], What do I need to do now?
>> Speaker 3: I take the client
width minus the leftPadding minus
the rightPadding.
>> Justin Meyer: Exactly,
now one thing you should be aware of
is these things are gonna return.
leftPadding is gonna be set
to something like 10 pixels.
What's a good way of converting a number
to or, sorry, a string to a number?
>> Speaker 3: parseInt.
>> Justin Meyer: parseInt.
So I'm going to return
clientWidth- parseInt(leftPadding)-
parseInt(rightPadding).
Boom, now if I refresh my page,
I should be able to get a,
>> Justin Meyer: Width of my ul.
>> Justin Meyer: Says 301 pixels.
Let's check out what
the Inspector gives us, so
we can actually look at an element and
it will tell us the computer styles.
301, was that what it gave me?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Justin Meyer: Awesome,
we are collectively geniuses, good job,
good doing it.
So let's do offset that's the next one.
So that's the dimensions jQuery
gives you all these ways to figure
out the dimensions of your page,
over your elements.
The next thing is where is your
element located in the page or
relative to other elements.
So this shot here means I've
scrolled the page down.
Here's my browser window.
It can't show the entire body.
Here's the top left corner of the body and
I've scrolled down a little bit.
Does that make sense?
I've scrolled down.
So here's the kind of hypothetical of
where the top left corner of the body is,
but this is the only part
I can see in my viewport.
Now let's say I have a div
that's positioned relative
right in this location.
And I have another div that I'm
wanna position relative with in this
other element.
And it's gonna have a padding,
a border, and a margin.
>> Justin Meyer: Now we wanna know
where this element is in the page,
maybe where it is relative to its parent.
Let's see what the DOM
gives us to know the stuff.
So the DOM in every element gives
you an offsetTop property and
an offsetLeft that tells your
distance from your offsetParent.
So your offsetParent is not necessarily
always your parent element, but
it is for this element.
Your offsetParent is
the first parent element.
So if you look at an element,
start walking up its parent elements.
Until you find one that has
a position property set to something,
like relative, absolute, static, sticky.
Basically anything other
than position static.
That is an element offsetParent.
So every elements you know its coordinate
from its offsetParent, like this.
Now if I were to remove position
relative on this element.
All of a sudden because this
is not positioned anymore,
its most direct parent, the offsetParent
would actually be the HTML element.
And these elements offsetTop and
offsetLeft would be given
relative to the page a whole.
So the old way of having to figure out
where your element was positioned in
the page.
Was to sum up all your offsetTops and
offsetLefts by
recursing up each offsetParent
until you got to the HTML page.
Right, so previously,
if offsetParent was still this.
We get this offsetTop and offsetLeft.
And we'd add that to this elements
offsetTop and offsetLeft, which
would probably be the its offsetParent,
would be the each HTML element.
So you just keep recursing up
adding these numbers together.
Fortunately, you don't
have to do that anymore.
Because elements also now have
a getBoundingClientRect method.
So you can call on this element
getBoundingClientRect and
that returns you an object
that has a top and left.
A top and left dimension that
tells you this elements position
relative to the viewport, not to the page.
So here's how far down this element is
from the page to figure out where it is.
Sorry, to the page.
To figure out where this element
is relative to the page,
how would we do that?
>> Justin Meyer: So
I wanna know where this element,
I wanna know this dimension from
this point to this point here.
>> Speaker 4: To keep your
eye how far to scroll down?
>> Justin Meyer: Exactly right and
I'll show how to do that in a second.
Okay, so let's also talk
about what jQuery gives us.
Jquery gives us a position method.
You can call on an element and
it will give you the offset.
Basically, it's just returning
an object that has the offsetTop and
offsetLeft values.
That's jquery's position method.
jQuery also has an offset
method that gives you
the position relative to the page.
It gives you an object that has a top and
a left that's relative to the page.
In my opinion,
jQuery named these properties backwards.
jQueries offsets method
should be giving you
the position relative
to the offsetParent and
its position method should be giving
you the elements position in the page.
It's got it backwards.
So let's see how these all look together.
So jQuery's offset gives you
the position in the page.
getBoundingClientRect on an element gives
you to position relative to the window.
And then all of these things give you the
position relative to your offsetParent.
In terms of performance, you can
pretty much go whatever is closest.
It's gonna give you
the the faster performance.
So position offsetLeft an offsetTop are
super fast to get kind of this dimension.
So sometimes it's okay just to get your
dimension relative to your offsetParent.
In those situations,
it's nice to use these methods.
If you have really fast,
just like a slider or something like that.
It's better just to be calculating
off of this information.
getBoundClientRect is next very fast
because that's like now everywhere.
And then finally get offset is
fast in most browsers because it's
just using getBoundingClientRect and
just doing a little addition to it.
But it used to be pretty slow.
To get the scroll amount you've scrolled,
the approved way apparently
is doing the getting the pageYOffset
of how far you've scrolled down.
So if you do window.pageYOffset, that
gives you how far you've scrolled down.
I prefer to use scroll top,
because that's what other elements your
scroll top in your scroll left is how
far you've scrolled other elements.
But this is more widely supported.
>> Justin Meyer: So
that's dimension stuff.
So let's say we want to
implement jQuery's offset.
Here's how you might do that.
Simply given the first element.
You're going to read
the position of that element
relative to the window or to the viewport.
And then you're gonna include
how far you've scrolled in each
dimension to give the final value
of the location in the page.